Creating Tensile Documentation (#1999)
ROCm/Tensile: docs/src/getting-started/installation.rst

.. meta::
  :description: Tensile documentation and API reference
  :keywords: Tensile, GEMM, Tensor, ROCm, API, Documentation

.. _installation:

********************************************************************
Installation
********************************************************************

You can obtain Tensile as part of ROCm installation or choose to install Tensile from source. This document discusses both the methods to obtain Tensile.

Install ROCm
============

> 1. Install ROCm for your platform. For installation instructions, refer to `Linux <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/install-on-linux/en/latest/tutorial/quick-start.html>`_ or Windows `Windows <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/install-on-windows/en/latest/index.html>` installation guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install ROCm for your platform. For installation instructions, refer to `Linux <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/install-on-linux/en/latest/tutorial/quick-start.html>`_ or Windows `Windows <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/install-on-windows/en/latest/index.html>`_ installation guide.
```

>    After the installation is complete, you can find the binaries and libraries in ``/opt/rocm``. Installing ROCm provides compilers such as ``amdclang++``, and other useful tools including ``rocminfo`` and ``rocprofv2``.

Author: @bstefanuk Is this information related to Tensile installation in any way?

Reviewer: I would say we should move line 18 to the Programmer's Guide and update it to day
```suggestion
   After the installation is complete, ROCm compilers such as ``amdclang++`` can be found in ``/opt/rocm``, which is called implicitly throughout the various Tensile applications.
```

Reviewer: For line 18, no, we can remove it. But please keep step number 1 for completeness.

Author: Done.

   .. tip::

      If using Bash, we recommend you to set ``PATH=/opt/rocm/bin/:$PATH`` in your ``~/.bashrc`` and refresh your shell, using ``source ~/.bashrc``.
      Alternatively, export the path for your current shell session only, using ``export PATH=/opt/rocm/bin/:$PATH``.

Install OS dependencies
=======================

> Here are the steps to install dependencies for Ubuntu distributions. For other distributions, use the appropriate package manager.

Author: @bstefanuk For other distributions, where can the users find the appropriate package manager? Can we provide ROCm package manager link here?

Reviewer: This would be a significant addition that probably won't add much value. Typically those who work on non-Ubuntu OS's such as RHEL will be familiar with the package manager of their OS. The following page (linked in the docs in step 1) show the package managers for the different OSs used when installing ROCm. That could be used as a reference.

Author: Ok. Then, let's leave it like that.

.. note::
   These steps might require elevated privileges.

1. Install dependencies:

.. code-block::

    apt-get install libyaml python3-yaml \
        libomp-dev libboost-program-options-dev libboost-filesystem-dev

2. Install one of the following, depending on your preferred Tensile data format. If both are installed, ``msgpack`` is preferred:

.. code-block::

   apt-get install libmsgpack-dev    # If using the msgpack backend

   # OR

   apt-get install libtinfo-dev      # If using the YAML backend

3. Install build tools. For additional installation methods for the latest versions of CMake, see the `CMake installation <https://cliutils.gitlab.io/modern-cmake/chapters/intro/installing.html>`_ page.

   .. code-block::

      apt-get install build-essential cmake

> 4. Verify the versions of installed tools against the following table:

Author: @bstefanuk What does the user need to verify? Should the installed tools match the versions mentioned in the table? The action item for user is not clear here.

Reviewer: Please remove this line -- out-dated.

Author: Removed point 4.

.. table:: C++ build dependencies
   :widths: grid

   ========== =======
   Dependency Version
   ========== =======
   amdclang++ 17.0+
   Make       4.2+
   CMake      3.16+
   ========== =======

Install Tensile from source
============================

To install Tensile from source, it is recommended to create a virtual environment first:

.. code-block:: bash

  python3 -m venv .venv
  source .venv/bin/activate

Then, you can install Tensile using pip or git.

Option 1: Install with pip
---------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

  pip3 install git+https://github.com/ROCmSoftwarePlatform/Tensile.git@develop

Option 2: Install with git
----------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

  git clone git@github.com:ROCm/Tensile.git && cd Tensile
  pip3 install .

> You can now run Tensile's Python applications—see :ref:`quick-start`.

Author: @bstefanuk Is quick start the only way to run Tensile's python applications? Normally a quick start is a shortcut to achieve something while a longer method is also available. I am trying to understand if quick start is actually a quick start? If its the only "start" then let's not call it quick start or otherwise we need to mention the other method to run applications as well.

Reviewer: We have road mapped the addition of example docs describing how to run more advanced workflows, but that's still a few sprints away. Let's keep the quick start how it is for now, and I'll add the link here when the subsequent docs are added.

Author: I realized that a separate quick start file doesn't make sense since it is in continuation with installation and this quick start is not a quick install but a quick way of running benchmarks.
I have made the changes.
